Write README (#18)
datavaluepeople/kotsu: README.md

# kotsu: lightweight framework for structuring model validation

[![PyPI version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/kotsu.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/kotsu/)
![lint-test status](https://github.com/datavaluepeople/kotsu/actions/workflows/run-ci.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/datavaluepeople/kotsu/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=3W8T5OSRZZ)](https://codecov.io/gh/datavaluepeople/kotsu)

## What is it?

**kotsu** is Python package that provides a lightweight and flexible framework to structure
validating and comparing machine learning models. It aims to provide the skeleton on which to

> develop any kinds of models and to validate them in a robust and repeatable way, **without bloat or
> overheads**. Its flexibility fully leaves open usage with **any model interface**, and any
> complexity of validation, while the structure it provides **avoids common pitfalls** that occur
> when attempting to make fair comparisons between models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
develop models and to validate them in a robust and repeatable way, **minimizing 
bloat or overhead**. Its flexibility allows usage with **any model interface** and any
validation technique, no matter how complex. The structure it provides **avoids
common pitfalls** that occur when attempting to make fair comparisons between models.
```

> ## Main Feature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Main Features
```

Author: 420f20c

  - Register a model with hyperparameters to a unique ID
  - Register validations to a unique ID

>   - Run all registered models through all registered validations, and have the results compiled and
>     stored into a dataframe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Run all registered models through all registered validations, and have the results compiled and
    stored as a CSV
```

Author: 5b26a00

  - Optionally passes an `artefacts_directory` to your validations, for storing of outputs for

>     further analysis, e.g. trained models, model predictions on test data sets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    further analysis, e.g. trained models or model predictions on test data sets
```

Author: 9dc7c8c

  - Doesn't enforce any constraints or requirements on your models' interfaces
  - Pure Python package, with no other setup or configuration of other systems required

## Usage

Import your packages for modelling and kotsu:

```python
from sklearn import datasets, svm
from sklearn.model_selection import cross_val_score

> import kotsu

Reviewer: 🐼 people importing kotsu will be importing it as third party library so will be at the top of the third party section in this case

Author: 60dee69

```

> Register your competing models. Here we register two Support Vector Classifiers with different

Reviewer: Maybe `**Register your competing models:**` or underlined or something for each of the first phrases in this section? just to be real punchy about the 4 or so steps required

Author: b3cf2af

hyper-parameters:

> 

Reviewer 2: Might need a bit more verbose instructions on what is needed (entry_point pointing towards the model def) and what is optional: ( most of the kwargs as there are defaults), and that the kwargs entered are just being passed on to the model itself.

Author: Added to #19

```python
model_registry = kotsu.registration.ModelRegistry()

model_registry.register(
    id="SCV-v1",
    entry_point=svm.SVC,
    kwargs={"kernel": "linear", "C": 1, "random_state": 1},
)

model_registry.register(

>     id="SCV-v2",

Reviewer 2: typo: `SCV` => `SVC`

Author: b47d547

    entry_point=svm.SVC,
    kwargs={"kernel": "linear", "C": 0.5, "random_state": 1},
)
```

Register your validations. You can register multiple if you want to compare models over different
tests, e.g. on different datasets. Your validation should take an instance of your models as an
argument and return a dictionary containing the results. Here we register two Cross-Validation
validations with different numbers of folds:

```python
validation_registry = kotsu.registration.ValidationRegistry()

> def factory_iris_cross_valdation(folds: int):

Reviewer 2: typo: `factory_iris_cross_valdation` -> `factory_iris_cross_validation`

Author: 5c1f9ff

>     """Factory for iris cross validation."""

Reviewer: a general point about factories: it suddenly strikes me that the validations might tend to always just be functions (ie, not have any state), in which case the extra hoop being jumped through about making factories (rather than just writing the function) might be annoying - but i suggest we come back to this after using it a little to see how it feels

Reviewer 3: wondering if this is actually almost an example of where there is state in the sense of the data needs to be loaded and that is currently being done within the validation function body but could be done in the constructor and potentially should be done in the constructor e.g. if we want to share the folds between different models and they are randomly created. As a middle ground validations could be callable class instances?

Author: > it suddenly strikes me that the validations might tend to always just be functions

Yea might well turn out to be the case. We can see how it looks once we're using it in the wild ay, and update the docs with whatevers more indicative once we know. 

Added this to #19 

> wondering if this is actually almost an example of where there is state in the sense of the data needs to be loaded and that is currently being done within the validation function body but could be done in the constructor

Yea could well be. I'm super certain how it is going to look in the wild yet. But certainly will be something I'll be acutely thinking about during usage of it. 

> As a middle ground validations could be callable class instances or just functions?

I'm pretty sure that they can already be either of those with this currently implementation.

>     def iris_cross_valdation(model) -> dict:

Reviewer 2: typo `iris_cross_valdation` -> `iris_cross_validation`

Author: 5c1f9ff

        """Iris classification cross validation."""
        X, y = datasets.load_iris(return_X_y=True)
        scores = cross_val_score(model, X, y, cv=folds)
        results = {f"fold_{i}_score": score for i, score in enumerate(scores)}
        results["mean_score"] = scores.mean()
        results["std_score"] = scores.std()
        return results

>     return iris_cross_val

Reviewer 2: typo `iris_cross_val` -> `iris_cross_validation`

Author: 5c1f9ff

validation_registry.register(
    id="iris_cross_val-v1",
    entry_point=factory_iris_cross_valdation,
    kwargs={"folds": 5},
)

validation_registry.register(
    id="iris_cross_val-v2",

>     entry_point=factory_iris_cross_valdation,

Reviewer 2: same typo `factory_iris_cross_validation`

Author: 5c1f9ff

    kwargs={"folds": 10},
)
```

Run the models through the validations, choosing the current directory as location for the output
of the results:

```python
kotsu.run(model_registry, validation_registry, "./")
```

> Then find the results from each model-validation combination in a dataframe written to the current

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then find the results from each model-validation combination in a CSV written to the current
```

Reviewer 4: Maybe there should be a bit more explanation about `store` functionality in general?

`The results are stored so that the dictionary that is returned from each validation becomes a row in the dataframe/CSV`

Author: 84ec4fc

Author: > Maybe there should be a bit more explanation about store functionality in general?

Added a bit more details in here 605e663

directory.

#### Documentation on interfaces

See [kotsu.typing](https://github.com/datavaluepeople/kotsu/blob/main/kotsu/typing.py) for
documentation on the main entities; Models, Validations, and Results, and their interfaces.

#### Comprehensive example

See the [end to end test](https://github.com/datavaluepeople/kotsu/blob/main/tests/test_end_to_end.py)
for a more comprehensive example usage of kotsu, which includes storing the trained models from
each model-validation run.

> ## Where to get it

Reviewer: I think the `Installation` being right at the top of the README (a la [truman](https://github.com/datavaluepeople/truman)) is maybe a bit better? what do you think

Reviewer 4: I would agree with Ali on moving this up to the top.

Author: 3e29ad9
